`11.May at 13.43` - got an email of a potential internship opportunity at CGI
`11.May around 20.00` - Saw the email of a potential internship oppportunity and noticed a home task
15.May - 18.May - Had enough time to discuss with fellow students about the task, but not enough time to write any code
`18.May - 21.May at 13.00` - Cloned the repo and started learning and figuring out about AngularJS, also tried a CodeCademy course (usually really useful), but environments were too different and as the codeCademy course did not use classes and also did not have bunch of other external stuff added (scss, material etc), then it quickly grew over the head for me to keep learning so much at once. I got far enough to understand most of the frontend code/logic, but almost all my tries to implement something myself in AngularJS failed. I decided to pivot to ReactJS as I am quite familiar and comfortable with it
`21.May 13.00 - 16.00` - Created a separate directory 'react-frontend' and set up a new react app inside it, using command `npx create-react-app react-frontend`, I also set the port to `4200` just in case the backend's CORS allows access via checking the port number. With react it took me only 3 hours to get the frontend to similar place of the AngularJS version (routing, fetching book list, fetching individual books, etc), even added a pagination component on the library-view for future pagination support (Almost no design, yet) (Started documenting + first push of react app).
`21.May 16.45` - As I have quite a small experience with JAVA, then figuring out backend endpoints and the backend file structure took quite a bit of time. Did not have to worry about the endpoints before now, because, in AngularJS files I found 4 endpoint scripts (getBooks, getBook, postBook, deleteBook), but I still apparently need something called checkouts, which are also mentioned in `book.ts` file. (When requesting these books by ID, then the checkout count does not increase, so it means either that the checkout is some other kind of request or that I need to implement the increase, myself. But I also saw that in the "JOB" description there was check out brought up as a separate term aswell, so it probably is the the first quess of it being a separate type of request.) `[suggestion] For future hometasks, please make it more clear what a checkout of books means. `
`21.May 17.00 - 18.00` - Found out that checkout history === borrow history from `data.sql, line 1004` Forgot to document before push.
`22.May 15.30 - 23.May 03.20` - Completely forgot about this file today and travelled from Tartu to Jõhvi dorms (=== coding started later), added most of the needed Views (atleast placeholders) that are needed. figured out the overall structure of the project and the application flow. Worked with library View + Checkout View functionality. Took some time to figure out the color scheme/palette of the page and added the colors as variables. Discussed, compared and explained the code to many fellow students (it was crowded as selection sprint started today aswell :)). Added some basic css and made the whole page look a bit less like a baddly formatted word document (haven't yet checked the responsiveness) Sry for forgetting to push more frequently today...
`23.May 13.00 - 23.May 19.00` It was a busy day in school, did not get to do much, so I think I forgot to push this day's progress.
`24.May 12.00 - 25.May 02.00` This was a long day, also I did not sleep enough so progress was a bit slower than usually. I started with figuring out what saveBook, saveCheckout endpoints do and result was a bit different of what I thought. Luckily I found out that save endpoints were hybrid or more dynamic endpoints for overwriting data and also for submitting data so pretty much PUT + POST added together, meaning that I did not need to add PUt/PATCH method. I really lack in JAVA experience so it was great news for me. In the end of the day, I so far have gotten to work the whole borrow/return proccess of books. I also wanted to add a separate feature for the borrow book form, where I can change the book that I want to borrow inside the form, but loading up the whole list of books seems like a awful idea performance wise so I will probably drop this idea. I mean it could most likely work with this relatively small database of books, but it wouldn't be scalable enough for an real-world's bigger library. Pagination module should be ready, need to connect it with fetching though...
`25.May 15.00 - ...` Implemented pagination to the requests aswell, was easier than I thought.